---
title: 3.3.2. Floating-point errors

katex: true
markup: "mmark"
---

Floating-point errors, in summary, are basically where the computer makes tiny errors when doing arithmetic with decimals. 

A rather specific example was given previously, but note that these issues can occur with simple decimal values as well. \
You can try this yourself: 

Go to [repl.it/languages/php_cli](https://replit.com/languages/php_cli), and put this into the interpreter to see what you get: 

```php
<?php
echo 0.1 + 0.2 - 0.3;
?>
```

Rather than `0`, we get a value that's very close to it - `5.5511151231258E-17`!

In general, **dealing with decimals in code is not nice** - you always have to consider cases where rounding is necessary, and it takes a lot of extra work to make sure that the solutions display properly (as noted in the previous page). 

However, if the question explicitly requires doing calculations with non-whole numbers, then you have a few options for dealing with this. 

1. **Round the values** to some suitable number of places after your calculations. \
   This can be done in cases where you have an upper bound on how much precision you actually require. 

2. **Multiply the values by some power of 10** to turn them into whole numbers first. \
   This is particularly helpful for cases where you're dealing with money (dollars and cents), or other things with fixed denominations. \
   It can be helpful to work in terms of the smallest unit - because PHP is 100% accurate as long as whole numbers are involved.

> -- Incomplete Section
> Probably some example? I'll get around to this when I come across a particularly compelling use case